

[https://www.puppet.com/docs/pe/2021.6/r10k_deploy_env.html](https://www.puppet.com/docs/pe/2021.6/r10k_deploy_env.html)


# 1 Updating environments : r10k deploy environment

only update the environment production ,  sync with mad-puppet-control Puppetfile  and not update all Puppet modules
`r10k deploy environment production`

In case you want to sync with mad-puppet-control Puppetfile and update all Puppet modules accordingly.
r10k deploy environment production --modules


### 1.1.1 Update all environments

The `r10k deploy environment` command updates all existing environments and recursively creates new environments.

From the command line, run: `r10k deploy environment`

Structured in this way, this command updates modules only on the environment's first deployment. On subsequent updates, it only updates the environment.

### 1.1.2 Update all environments and modules

Add the `--modules` flag to the `r10k deploy environment` command to update all environments and their modules.

From the command line, run: `r10k deploy environment --modules`

This command:

- Updates all existing environments.
- Creates new environments, if any new branches are detected.
- Deletes old environments, if any branches no longer exist.
- Recursively updates all environment modules declared in each environment's Puppetfile.

This command does the maximum possible deployment work. Therefore it is the slowest method for r10k deployments. Usually, you'll use the less resource-intensive commands for updating specific environments and modules.

### 1.1.3 Update a single environment

To update a single environment, specify the environment name with the `r10k deploy environment` command.

From the command line, run:

```
r10k deploy environment <ENVIRONMENT_NAME>
```

Formatted in this way, this command updates one environment. It deploys modules only during the environment's first deployment. On subsequent deployments, it only updates the environment.

If you are actively developing a specific environment, this command is the quickest way to deploy your changes so you can test them.

### 1.1.4 Update a single environment and its modules

To update a specific environment's content and its modules, add the `--modules` flag to your environment-specific command. This is useful if you want to make sure that a given environment is fully up to date and has modules recently declared in the environment's Puppetfile.

On the command line, run:

```
r10k deploy environment <ENVIRONMENT_NAME> --modules
```

# 2 Installing and updating modules: r10k deploy module



在 puppetfile 中修改了某个 Puppet module 对应的数字， 然后

r10k deploy module
r10k deploy module apache jenkins java    这些事 module_name
r10k deploy module -e production ivu_ptp_profiles  
## 2.1 Update specific modules across all environments

To update specific modules across all environments, specify the modules with the `r10k deploy module` command.

Important: Before updating modules, you must [Update all environments and modules](https://www.puppet.com/docs/pe/2021.6/r10k_deploy_env#updating_all_environments_and_modules "Add the --modules flag to the r10k deploy environment command to update all environments and their modules.").

To update one module across all environments, append the module name to the command, such as:

```
r10k deploy module <MODULE_NAME>
```

To update multiple modules across all environments, append the module names to the command, separated by spaces. For example, this command updates the `apache`, `jenkins`, and `java` modules:

```
r10k deploy module apache jenkins java
```

If a specified module is not declared in an environment's Puppetfile, that environment is skipped.

## 2.2 Update one or more modules in a single environment

To update specific modules in a specific environment, specify both the environment and the modules in your command.

Important: Before updating modules, you must .

The command format is:

```
r10k deploy module -e <ENVIRONMENT_NAME> <MODULE_NAME>
```

The first argument supplied after `-e` is interpreted as an environment name. Anything after this is treated as a module name. You can append multiple module names, but only one environment name.

For example, this command updates the `apache`, `jenkins`, and `java` modules in the `production` environment:

```
r10k deploy module -e production apache jenkins java
```

If the specified module is not described in a given environment's Puppetfile, that module is skipped.







# 3 Get environment details with r10k: r10k deploy display

The r10k deploy display command returns information about your environments and modules. This subcommand does not deploy environments, it only displays information about the environments and modules r10k is managing.


To get expected and actual versions of modules in all environments,

r10k deploy display -m --detail
r10k deploy display -m --detail <ENVIRONMENT_NAME> <ENVIRONMENT_NAME>

```
[root@e31-madpp-s01 production]# r10k deploy display -m --detail production

---

:sources:

- :name: :mad

  :basedir: "/etc/puppetlabs/code/environments"

  :remote: ssh://git@git.ivu-ag.com:7999/ptpdeli/mad-puppet-control

  :environments:

  - :name: production

    :signature: dcb4b5415078d995aa4adc1a521e110886725737

    :status: :outdated

```
