
https://www.puppet.com/docs/puppet/8/lang_resources#lang_resources

Resources contained in classes and defined types share the relationships of those classes and defined types. Resources are not subject to scope: a resource in any area of code can be referenced from any other area of code.

A resource declaration adds a resource to the catalog and tells Puppet to manage that resource's state.

When Puppet applies the compiled catalog, it:
1. Reads the actual state of the resource on the target system.
2. Compares the actual state to the desired state.
3. If necessary, changes the system to enforce the desired state.
4. Logs any changes made to the resource. These changes appear in Puppet agent's log and in the run report, which is sent to the primary server and forwarded to any specified report processors.

If the catalog doesn't contain a particular resource, Puppet does nothing with whatever that resource described. If you remove a package resource from your manifests, Puppet doesn't uninstall the package; instead, it just ignores it. To remove a package, manage it as a resource and set `ensure => absent`.

You can delay adding resources to the catalog. For example, classes and defined types can contain groups of resources. These resources are managed only if you add that class or defined resource to the catalog. Virtual resources are added to the catalog only after they are realized.


# 1 Resource declarations

At minimum, every resource declaration has a resource type, a title, and a set of attributes:

```
<TYPE> { '<TITLE>': <ATTRIBUTE> => <VALUE>, }
```

The resource title and attributes are called the resource body. A resource declaration can have one resource body or multiple resource bodies of the same resource type.



# 2 Resource declaration default attributes

default value 的给入 

If a resource declaration includes a resource body with a title of `default`, Puppet doesn't create a new resource named "default." Instead, every other resource in that declaration uses attribute values from the `default` body if it doesn't have an explicit value for one of those attributes. This is also known as "per-expression defaults."

Resource declaration defaults are useful because it lets you set many attributes at once, but you can still override some of them.

This example declares several different files, all using the default values set in the `default` resource body. However, the `mode` value for the the files in the last array (`['ssh_config', 'ssh_host_dsa_key.pub'....`) is set explicitly instead of using the default.

```
file {
  default:
    ensure => file,
    owner  => "root",
    group  => "wheel",
    mode   => "0600",
  ;
  ['ssh_host_dsa_key', 'ssh_host_key', 'ssh_host_rsa_key']:
    # use all defaults
  ;
  ['ssh_config', 'ssh_host_dsa_key.pub', 'ssh_host_key.pub', 'ssh_host_rsa_key.pub', 'sshd_config']:
    # override mode
    mode => "0644",
  ;
}
```

The position of the `default` body in a resource declaration doesn't matter; resources above and below it all use the default attributes if applicable.  You can only have one `default` resource body per resource declaration.


# 3 Setting attributes from a hash

You can set attributes for a resource by using the splat attribute, which uses the splat or asterisk character `*`, in the resource body.

The value of the splat (`*`) attribute must be a hash where:
- Each key is the name of a valid attribute for that resource type, as a string.
- Each value is a valid value for the attribute it's assigned to.

This sets values for that resource's attributes, using every attribute and value listed in the hash.

For example, the splat attribute in this declaration sets the `owner`, `group`, and `mode` settings for the file resource.

```
$file_ownership = {
  "owner" => "root",
  "group" => "wheel",
  "mode"  => "0644",
}

file { "/etc/passwd":
  ensure => file,
  *      => $file_ownership,
}
```

You cannot set any attribute more than once for a given resource; if you try, Puppet raises a compilation error. This means that:

- If you use a hash to set attributes for a resource, you cannot set a different, explicit value for any of those attributes. For example, if `mode` is present in the hash, you can't also set `mode => "0644"` in that resource body.
    
- You can't use the `*` attribute multiple times in one resource body, since the splat itself is an attribute.
    

To use some attributes from a hash and override others, either use a hash to set per-expression defaults, as described in the **Resource declaration default attributes** section (above), or use the merging operator, `+` to combine attributes from two hashes, with the right-hand hash overriding the left-hand one.


